# comment-patterns

> A list of comment-patterns for different languages

This module contains an extract of the [language-database of `groc`](http://nevir.github.io/groc/languages.html)
with information about how single- and multi-line comments are written in different languages.

## Basic usage

```js
var commentPattern = require('comment-patterns');
var p = commentPattern('filename.js');
```
This will lead to `p` being: 

```js
{
  name: "JavaScript",
  nameMatchers: [".js"],
  multiLineComment: [{
    start: /\/\*\*?/,
    middle: "*",
    end: "*/"
  }],
  singleLineComment: ["//"]
}
```

* **name** is the name of the language
* **nameMatchers** is an array of file extensions of filenames that 
  files in this language usually have.
* **multiLineComment** is an array of patterns for comments that may span multiple lines
  * **start** is the beginning of a comment
  * **middle** is a character of a regex that occurs in front of each comment line
  * **end** marks the end of the comment
* **singleLineComment** is the prefix of comments that go until the end of the line

## Variation (regex)

It is also possible to retrieve a regular expression that matches comments
(up to the next line of code):

```js
var re = commentPattern.regex('filename.js');
```
The result `re` will be:

```js
{
  regex: /^([ \t]*)(\/\*\*?([\s\S]*?)\*\/|((?:[ \t]*?\/\/.*\r?\n?)+))[\r\n]*/gm,
  cg: {
    indent: 1,
    wholeComment: 2,
    contentStart: 3
  },
  middle: [/^[ \t]*\*/gm, /^[ \t]*\/\//gm],
  name: "JavaScript"
}
```

* **regex** is the actual regular expression. It matches the comments in a string,
  including any empty lines after the comment.
* **cg** are constant values refering to capturing groups of the regex.
  * `match[cg.indent]` contains the spaces that indent comment-start-delimiter.
  * `match[cg.wholeComment]` matches the comment including delimiters.
  * `match[cg.contentStart]` is the first group that captures the contents of the comment
    In this case, there are multiple possible delimiters, so dependending on which 
    delimiter is used, `match[cg.contentStart]` or `match[cg.contentStart + 1]` is
    filled. the others are undefined.
* **middle** contains one pattern for each group after `cg.contentStart` that matches
  the prefix used before comment lines. It can be used to remove this prefix.
  If the middle-prefix for this capturing group is empty (`''`), the pattern is `null`.
* **name** is the language name for debugging purposes.  

## Variation (codeContext)

Some languages have functions that can categorize a single line of code (mostly the one 
directly after the comment), in order to determine the context of a apidoc comment.

```js
var codeContext = 
```

## Reference

### [commentPattern](index.js#L30)

Load the comment-pattern for a given file.
The file-language is determined by the file-extension.

**Params**

* `filename` **{string}**: the name of the file    
* `returns` **{object}**: the comment-patterns  

### [.commentPattern.regex](index.js#L49)

Load the comment-regex for a given file.
The result contains a regex that matches the comments
in the specification. It also has information about
which the different capturing groups of an object.

**Params**

* `filename` **{string}**: the name of the file    
* `returns` **{object}**: an object containing regular expressions and capturing-group metadata, see usage example for details

## The database

The language-specification can be found in the 
`languages`-directory. There is one file
for each language. The actual databases will be
created from these files on `prepublish`.

## The language database

[The language database can be found here](docs/languages.md)

## Contributing

See the [contributing guide](docs/contributing.md)

## Run tests

Install dev dependencies:

```bash
npm i -d && npm test
```

## Related

[extract-comments](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/extract-comments): Extract code comments from string or from a glob of files.

## Author

**Nils Knappmeier**

+ [github/nknapp](https://github.com/nknapp)
+ [twitter/knappi79](http://twitter.com/knappi79)

## License

Copyright (c) 2015 Nils Knappmeier
Released under the MIT license.

***

_This file was generated by [verb-cli](https://github.com/assemble/verb-cli) on May 29, 2015._

<!-- reflinks generated by verb-reflinks plugin -->

[assemble]: http://assemble.io
[template]: https://github.com/jonschlinkert/template
[verb]: https://github.com/assemble/verb